README.md, before:

Supplementary materials for *Quantitative Distribution of English and
Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*
================
*by* [Gede Primahadi Wijaya
RAJEG](https://udayananetworking.unud.ac.id/lecturer/880-gede-primahadi-wijaya-rajeg)
<a itemprop="sameAs" content="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2047-8621" href="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2047-8621" target="orcid.widget" rel="noopener noreferrer" style="vertical-align:top;"><img src="https://orcid.org/sites/default/files/images/orcid_16x16.png" style="width:1em;margin-right:.5em;" alt="ORCID iD icon"></a>
& Utei Charaleghy PAMPHILA

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/doi-10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445-blue.svg?style=flat&labelColor=whitesmoke&logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB8AAAAfCAYAAAAfrhY5AAAJsklEQVR42qWXd1DTaRrHf%2BiB2Hdt5zhrAUKz4IKEYu9IGiGFFJJQ0gkJCAKiWFDWBRdFhCQUF3UVdeVcRQEBxUI3yY9iEnQHb3bdW1fPubnyz%2F11M7lvEHfOQee2ZOYzPyDv%2B3yf9%2Fk95YX4fx%2BltfUt08GcFEuPR4U9hDDZ%2FVngIlhb%2FSiI6InkTgLzgDcgfvtnovhH4BzoVlrbwr55QnhCtBW4QHXnFrZbPBaQoBh4%2FSYH2EnpBEtqcDMVzB93wA%2F8AFwa23XFGcc8CkT3mxz%2BfXWtq9T9IQlLIXYEuHojudb%2BCM7Hgdq8ydi%2FAHiBXyY%2BLjwFlAEnS6Jnar%2FvnQVhvdzasad0eKvWZKe8hvDB2ofLZ%2FZEcWsh%2BhyIuyO5Bxs2iZIE4nRv7NWAb0EO8AC%2FWPxjYAWuOEX2MSXZVgPxzmRL3xKz3ScGpx6p6QnOx4mDIFqO0w6Q4fEhO5IzwxlSwyD2FYHzwAW%2BAZ4fEsf74gCumykwNHskLM7taQxLYjjIyy8MUtraGhTWdkfhkFJqtvuVl%2F9l2ZquDfEyrH8B0W06nnpH3JtIyRGpH1iJ6SfxDIHjRXHJmdQjLpfHeN54gnfFx4W9QRnovx%2FN20aXZeTD2J84hn3%2BqoF2Tqr14VqTPUCIcP%2B5%2Fly4qC%2BUL3sYxSvNj1NwsVYPsWdMUfomsdkYm3Tj0nbV0N1wRKwFe1MgKACDIBdMAhPE%2FwicwNWxll8Ag40w%2BFfhibJkGHmutjYeQ8gVlaN%2BjO51nDysa9TwNUFMqaGbKdRJZFfOJSp6mkRKsv0rRIpEVWjAvyFkxNOEpwvcAVPfEe%2Bl8ojeNTx3nXLBcWRrYGxSRjDEk0VlpxYrbe1ZmaQ5xuT0u3r%2B2qe5j0J5uytiZPGsRL2Jm32AldpxPUNJ3jmmsN4x62z1cXrbedXBQf2yvIFCeZrtyicZZG2U2nrrBJzYorI2EXLrvTfCSB43s41PKEvbZDEfQby6L4JTj%2FfIwam%2B4%2BwucBu%2BDgNK05Nle1rSt9HvR%2FKPC4U6LTfvUIaip1mjIa8fPzykii23h2eanT57zQ7fsyYH5QjywwlooAUcAdOh5QumgTHx6aAO7%2FL52eaQNEShrxfhL6albEDmfhGflrsT4tps8gTHNOJbeDeBlt0WJWDHSgxs6cW6lQqyg1FpD5ZVDfhn1HYFF1y4Eiaqa18pQf3zzYMBhcanlBjYfgWNayAf%2FASOgklu8bmgD7hADrk4cRlOL7NSOewEcbqSmaivT33QuFdHXj5sdvjlN5yMDrAECmdgDWG2L8P%2BAKLs9ZLZ7dJda%2BB4Xl84t7QvnKfvpXJv9obz2KgK8dXyqISyV0sXGZ0U47hOA%2FAiigbEMECJxC9aoKp86re5O5prxOlHkcksutSQJzxZRlPZmrOKhsQBF5zEZKybUC0vVjG8PqOnhOq46qyDTDnj5gZBriWCk4DvXrudQnXQmnXblebhAC2cCB6zIbM4PYgGl0elPSgIf3iFEA21aLdHYLHUQuVkpgi02SxFdrG862Y8ymYGMvXDzUmiX8DS5vKZyZlGmsSgQqfLub5RyLNS4zfDiZc9Edzh%2FtCE%2BX8j9k%2FqWB071rcZyMImne1SLkL4GRw4UPHMV3jjwEYpPG5uW5fAEot0aTSJnsGAwHJi2nvF1Y5OIqWziVCQd5NT7t6Q8guOSpgS%2Fa1dSRn8JGGaCD3BPXDyQRG4Bqhu8XrgAp0yy8DMSvvyVXDgJcJTcr1wQ2BvFKf65jqhvmxXUuDpGBlRvV36XvGjQzLi8KAKT2lYOnmxQPGorURSV0NhyTIuIyqOmKTMhQ%2BieEsgOgpc4KBbfDM4B3SIgFljvfHF6cef7qpyLBXAiQcXvg5l3Iunp%2FWv4dH6qFziO%2BL9PbrimQ9RY6MQphEfGUpOmma7KkGzuS8sPUFnCtIYcKCaI9EXo4HlQLgGrBjbiK5EqMj2AKWt9QWcIFMtnVvQVDQV9lXJJqdPVtUQpbh6gCI2Ov1nvZts7yYdsnvRgxiWFOtNJcOMVLn1vgptVi6qrNiFOfEjHCDB3J%2BHDLqUB77YgQGwX%2Fb1eYna3hGKdlqJKIyiE4nSbV8VFgxmxR4b5mVkkeUhMgs5YTi4ja2XZ009xJRHdkfwMi%2BfocaancuO7h%2FMlcLOa0V%2FSw6Dq47CumRQAKhgbOP8t%2BMTjuxjJGhXCY6XpmDDFqWlVYbQ1aDJ5Cptdw4oLbf3Ck%2BdWkVP0LpH7s9XLPXI%2FQX8ws%2Bj2In63IcRvOOo%2BTTjiN%2BlssfRsanW%2B3REVKoavBOAPTXABW4AL7e4NygHdpAKBscmlDh9Jysp4wxbnUNna3L3xBvyE1jyrGIkUHaqQMuxhHElV6oj1picvgL1QEuS5PyZTEaivqh5vUCKJqOuIgPFGESns8kyFk7%2FDxyima3cYxi%2FYOQCj%2F%2B9Ms2Ll%2Bhn4FmKnl7JkGXQGDKDAz9rUGL1TIlBpuJr9Be2JjK6qPzyDg495UxXYF7JY1qKimw9jWjF0iV6DRIqE%2B%2FeWG0J2ofmZTk0mLYVd4GLiFCOoKR0Cg727tWq981InYynvCuKW43aXgEjofVbxIqrm0VL76zlH3gQzWP3R3Bv9oXxclrlO7VVtgBRpSP4hMFWJ8BrUSBCJXC07l40X4jWuvtc42ofNCxtlX2JH6bdeojXgTh5TxOBKEyY5wvBE%2BACh8BtOPNPkApjoxi5h%2B%2FFMQQNpWvZaMH7MKFu5Ax8HoCQdmGkJrtnOiLHwD3uS5y8%2F2xTSDrE%2F4PT1yqtt6vGe8ldMBVMEPd6KwqiYECHDlfbvzphcWP%2BJiZuL5swoWQYlS%2Br7Yu5mNUiGD2retxBi9fl6RDGn4Ti9B1oyYy%2BMP5G87D%2FCpRlvdnuy0PY6RC8BzTA40NXqckQ9TaOUDywkYsudxJzPgyDoAWn%2BB6nEFbaVxxC6UXjJiuDkW9TWq7uRBOJocky9iMfUhGpv%2FdQuVVIuGjYqACbXf8aa%2BPeYNIHZsM7l4s5gAQuUAzRUoT51hnH3EWofXf2vkD5HJJ33vwE%2FaEWp36GHr6GpMaH4AAPuqM5eabH%2FhfG9zcCz4nN6cPinuAw6IHwtvyB%2FdO1toZciBaPh25U0ducR2PI3Zl7mokyLWKkSnEDOg1x5fCsJE9EKhH7HwFNhWMGMS7%2BqxyYsbHHRUDUH4I%2FAheQY7wujJNnFUH4KdCju83riuQeHU9WEqNzjsJFuF%2FdTDAZ%2FK7%2F1WaAU%2BAWymT59pVMT4g2AxcwNa0XEBDdBDpAPvgDIH73R25teeuAF5ime2Ul0OUIiG4GpSAEJeYW9wDTf43wfwHgHLKJoPznkwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg%3D%3D)](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445)

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This
work is licensed under a
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License</a>.

# How to cite

If you use the data, figures, and R codes from this repository, please
cite it as follows:

> Rajeg, Gede Primahadi Wijaya; Pamphila, Utei Charaleghy (2021):
> Supplementary materials for *Quantitative Distribution of English and
> Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
> with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*.
> figshare. Online resource.
> <https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445>

# Preface

This is a repository for dataset, figures, and R Notebook with the R
codes for our paper titled *Quantitative Distribution of English and
Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*. This
paper is accepted for publication with minor revisions in the *[Journal
of Language and
Literature](https://e-journal.usd.ac.id/index.php/JOLL/index)*.

Commit message:

Update README with the citation of the published paper.

README.md, after:

Supplementary materials for *Quantitative Distribution of English and
Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*
================
*by* [Gede Primahadi Wijaya
RAJEG](https://udayananetworking.unud.ac.id/lecturer/880-gede-primahadi-wijaya-rajeg)
<a itemprop="sameAs" content="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2047-8621" href="https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2047-8621" target="orcid.widget" rel="noopener noreferrer" style="vertical-align:top;"><img src="https://orcid.org/sites/default/files/images/orcid_16x16.png" style="width:1em;margin-right:.5em;" alt="ORCID iD icon"></a>
& Utei Charaleghy PAMPHILA

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/doi-10.24071/joll.v21i2.3297-red.svg)](https://doi.org/10.24071/joll.v21i2.3297)
[![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/doi-10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445-blue.svg?style=flat&labelColor=whitesmoke&logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAB8AAAAfCAYAAAAfrhY5AAAJsklEQVR42qWXd1DTaRrHf%2BiB2Hdt5zhrAUKz4IKEYu9IGiGFFJJQ0gkJCAKiWFDWBRdFhCQUF3UVdeVcRQEBxUI3yY9iEnQHb3bdW1fPubnyz%2F11M7lvEHfOQee2ZOYzPyDv%2B3yf9%2Fk95YX4fx%2BltfUt08GcFEuPR4U9hDDZ%2FVngIlhb%2FSiI6InkTgLzgDcgfvtnovhH4BzoVlrbwr55QnhCtBW4QHXnFrZbPBaQoBh4%2FSYH2EnpBEtqcDMVzB93wA%2F8AFwa23XFGcc8CkT3mxz%2BfXWtq9T9IQlLIXYEuHojudb%2BCM7Hgdq8ydi%2FAHiBXyY%2BLjwFlAEnS6Jnar%2FvnQVhvdzasad0eKvWZKe8hvDB2ofLZ%2FZEcWsh%2BhyIuyO5Bxs2iZIE4nRv7NWAb0EO8AC%2FWPxjYAWuOEX2MSXZVgPxzmRL3xKz3ScGpx6p6QnOx4mDIFqO0w6Q4fEhO5IzwxlSwyD2FYHzwAW%2BAZ4fEsf74gCumykwNHskLM7taQxLYjjIyy8MUtraGhTWdkfhkFJqtvuVl%2F9l2ZquDfEyrH8B0W06nnpH3JtIyRGpH1iJ6SfxDIHjRXHJmdQjLpfHeN54gnfFx4W9QRnovx%2FN20aXZeTD2J84hn3%2BqoF2Tqr14VqTPUCIcP%2B5%2Fly4qC%2BUL3sYxSvNj1NwsVYPsWdMUfomsdkYm3Tj0nbV0N1wRKwFe1MgKACDIBdMAhPE%2FwicwNWxll8Ag40w%2BFfhibJkGHmutjYeQ8gVlaN%2BjO51nDysa9TwNUFMqaGbKdRJZFfOJSp6mkRKsv0rRIpEVWjAvyFkxNOEpwvcAVPfEe%2Bl8ojeNTx3nXLBcWRrYGxSRjDEk0VlpxYrbe1ZmaQ5xuT0u3r%2B2qe5j0J5uytiZPGsRL2Jm32AldpxPUNJ3jmmsN4x62z1cXrbedXBQf2yvIFCeZrtyicZZG2U2nrrBJzYorI2EXLrvTfCSB43s41PKEvbZDEfQby6L4JTj%2FfIwam%2B4%2BwucBu%2BDgNK05Nle1rSt9HvR%2FKPC4U6LTfvUIaip1mjIa8fPzykii23h2eanT57zQ7fsyYH5QjywwlooAUcAdOh5QumgTHx6aAO7%2FL52eaQNEShrxfhL6albEDmfhGflrsT4tps8gTHNOJbeDeBlt0WJWDHSgxs6cW6lQqyg1FpD5ZVDfhn1HYFF1y4Eiaqa18pQf3zzYMBhcanlBjYfgWNayAf%2FASOgklu8bmgD7hADrk4cRlOL7NSOewEcbqSmaivT33QuFdHXj5sdvjlN5yMDrAECmdgDWG2L8P%2BAKLs9ZLZ7dJda%2BB4Xl84t7QvnKfvpXJv9obz2KgK8dXyqISyV0sXGZ0U47hOA%2FAiigbEMECJxC9aoKp86re5O5prxOlHkcksutSQJzxZRlPZmrOKhsQBF5zEZKybUC0vVjG8PqOnhOq46qyDTDnj5gZBriWCk4DvXrudQnXQmnXblebhAC2cCB6zIbM4PYgGl0elPSgIf3iFEA21aLdHYLHUQuVkpgi02SxFdrG862Y8ymYGMvXDzUmiX8DS5vKZyZlGmsSgQqfLub5RyLNS4zfDiZc9Edzh%2FtCE%2BX8j9k%2FqWB071rcZyMImne1SLkL4GRw4UPHMV3jjwEYpPG5uW5fAEot0aTSJnsGAwHJi2nvF1Y5OIqWziVCQd5NT7t6Q8guOSpgS%2Fa1dSRn8JGGaCD3BPXDyQRG4Bqhu8XrgAp0yy8DMSvvyVXDgJcJTcr1wQ2BvFKf65jqhvmxXUuDpGBlRvV36XvGjQzLi8KAKT2lYOnmxQPGorURSV0NhyTIuIyqOmKTMhQ%2BieEsgOgpc4KBbfDM4B3SIgFljvfHF6cef7qpyLBXAiQcXvg5l3Iunp%2FWv4dH6qFziO%2BL9PbrimQ9RY6MQphEfGUpOmma7KkGzuS8sPUFnCtIYcKCaI9EXo4HlQLgGrBjbiK5EqMj2AKWt9QWcIFMtnVvQVDQV9lXJJqdPVtUQpbh6gCI2Ov1nvZts7yYdsnvRgxiWFOtNJcOMVLn1vgptVi6qrNiFOfEjHCDB3J%2BHDLqUB77YgQGwX%2Fb1eYna3hGKdlqJKIyiE4nSbV8VFgxmxR4b5mVkkeUhMgs5YTi4ja2XZ009xJRHdkfwMi%2BfocaancuO7h%2FMlcLOa0V%2FSw6Dq47CumRQAKhgbOP8t%2BMTjuxjJGhXCY6XpmDDFqWlVYbQ1aDJ5Cptdw4oLbf3Ck%2BdWkVP0LpH7s9XLPXI%2FQX8ws%2Bj2In63IcRvOOo%2BTTjiN%2BlssfRsanW%2B3REVKoavBOAPTXABW4AL7e4NygHdpAKBscmlDh9Jysp4wxbnUNna3L3xBvyE1jyrGIkUHaqQMuxhHElV6oj1picvgL1QEuS5PyZTEaivqh5vUCKJqOuIgPFGESns8kyFk7%2FDxyima3cYxi%2FYOQCj%2F%2B9Ms2Ll%2Bhn4FmKnl7JkGXQGDKDAz9rUGL1TIlBpuJr9Be2JjK6qPzyDg495UxXYF7JY1qKimw9jWjF0iV6DRIqE%2B%2FeWG0J2ofmZTk0mLYVd4GLiFCOoKR0Cg727tWq981InYynvCuKW43aXgEjofVbxIqrm0VL76zlH3gQzWP3R3Bv9oXxclrlO7VVtgBRpSP4hMFWJ8BrUSBCJXC07l40X4jWuvtc42ofNCxtlX2JH6bdeojXgTh5TxOBKEyY5wvBE%2BACh8BtOPNPkApjoxi5h%2B%2FFMQQNpWvZaMH7MKFu5Ax8HoCQdmGkJrtnOiLHwD3uS5y8%2F2xTSDrE%2F4PT1yqtt6vGe8ldMBVMEPd6KwqiYECHDlfbvzphcWP%2BJiZuL5swoWQYlS%2Br7Yu5mNUiGD2retxBi9fl6RDGn4Ti9B1oyYy%2BMP5G87D%2FCpRlvdnuy0PY6RC8BzTA40NXqckQ9TaOUDywkYsudxJzPgyDoAWn%2BB6nEFbaVxxC6UXjJiuDkW9TWq7uRBOJocky9iMfUhGpv%2FdQuVVIuGjYqACbXf8aa%2BPeYNIHZsM7l4s5gAQuUAzRUoT51hnH3EWofXf2vkD5HJJ33vwE%2FaEWp36GHr6GpMaH4AAPuqM5eabH%2FhfG9zcCz4nN6cPinuAw6IHwtvyB%2FdO1toZciBaPh25U0ducR2PI3Zl7mokyLWKkSnEDOg1x5fCsJE9EKhH7HwFNhWMGMS7%2BqxyYsbHHRUDUH4I%2FAheQY7wujJNnFUH4KdCju83riuQeHU9WEqNzjsJFuF%2FdTDAZ%2FK7%2F1WaAU%2BAWymT59pVMT4g2AxcwNa0XEBDdBDpAPvgDIH73R25teeuAF5ime2Ul0OUIiG4GpSAEJeYW9wDTf43wfwHgHLKJoPznkwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg%3D%3D)](http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445)

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This
work is licensed under a
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/">Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License</a>.

# How to cite

If you use the data, figures, and R codes from this repository, please
cite the following items (the paper and this supplementary-materials
repository):

> Rajeg, Gede Primahadi Wijaya & Utei Charaleghy Pamphila. 2021.
> Quantitative Distribution of English and Indonesian Motion Verbs and
> Its Typological Implications: A case study with the English and
> Indonesian versions of the Twilight novel. *Journal of Language and
> Literature* 21(2). 391–402.
> <https://doi.org/10.24071/joll.v21i2.3297>.

> Rajeg, Gede Primahadi Wijaya & Utei Charaleghy Pamphila. 2021:
> Supplementary materials for *Quantitative Distribution of English and
> Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
> with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*.
> figshare. Online resource.
> <https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.14753445>

# Preface

This is a repository for dataset, figures, and R Notebook with the R
codes for our paper titled *Quantitative Distribution of English and
Indonesian Motion Verbs and Its Typological Implications: A case study
with the English and Indonesian versions of the* Twilight *novel*. This
paper is [published open
access](https://doi.org/10.24071/joll.v21i2.3297) in the *[Journal of
Language and
Literature](https://e-journal.usd.ac.id/index.php/JOLL/index)*.
